README.md, before:

# Rendered math (MathJax) with Slack's desktop client

[Slack](https://slack.com) does not display rendered math. The `math-with-slack` script allows you to write nice-looking math using familiar TeX syntax by injecting [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org) into Slack's desktop client. This approach has several advantages over the plugin/bot solution:

  * You can write both inline- and display-style equations.
  * You can edit equations after you've posted them.
  * Nothing is sent to external servers for rendering.

The downside is that equations are not rendered for team members without the MathJax injection.


![Math Slack Example](math-slack.gif "Amazing maths!")


## How do I install it?

Get and run the script. Restart the Slack client. You're done!

### Getting the script

### Mac and Linux

Run the following in a terminal:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/YingzhouLi/math-with-slack
cd math-with-slack
sudo python math-with-slack.py
```

### Windows


You need to exit your Slack before the installation. Then there are two ways to install `math-with-slack` on Windows.

   1. Ubuntu subsystem
    
      ```shell
      git clone https://github.com/YingzhouLi/math-with-slack
      cd math-with-slack
      sudo python math-with-slack.py
      ```
      
   2. Windows PowerShell
   
      Download `math-with-slack` as a [zip file](https://github.com/YingzhouLi/math-with-slack/archive/master.zip) and unzip it.
    
      ```shell
      cd path\to\math-with-slack
      python math-with-slack.py
      ```
      
   If multiple versions of Slack are found on your computer, you will be asked to select one from them.
      ```shell
      cd path\to\math-with-slack
      python math-with-slack.py
      Several verisons of Slack were installed.
       0: /mnt/c/Users/***/AppData/Local/slack/app-4.9.0/resources/app.asar
       1: /mnt/c/Users/***/AppData/Local/slack/app-4.8.0/resources/app.asar
      Please select a version (#/Stop): 1
      ```
   You can either enter the number indicating one of the listed versions
   or type Enter to select the first one. If you want to stop the
   script, you can enter `Stop`.
   
   **Currently, we only support Slack installed from [Slack installer](https://slack.com/downloads/windows).
   If your Slack is installed through Microsoft Store, `math-with-slack` is not able to modifiy files in `WindowsApps`
   folder hence not able to embedded our script.**


### Package and software managers

The script needs write permissions in the Slack directory in order to inject the MathJax code. 
Some package and software managers write protect their directories, and `math-with-slack` cannot be installed 
if Slack is installed through such a manager. This is the case for both the Windows Store and Snap versions of Slack. 
You should use the version downloaded from [Slack's website](https://slack.com/downloads/windows) if you want to use 
`math-with-slack`. The script should, however, work with most package managers if 
[you manage to grant the script write permission](https://github.com/fsavje/math-with-slack/issues/32#issuecomment-479852799).


### Uninstall

To uninstall, run the script again with the `-u` flag:

```shell
python math-with-slack.py -u
```


### Updating Slack

The code injected by the script might be overwritten when you update the Slack app. 
If your client stops rendering math after an update, re-run the script as above and it should work again.


### If Slack cannot be found

If you've installed Slack in some exotic place, the script might not find the installation by itself or it 
might find the wrong installation. In such cases, you need to specify the location of Slack's
`app.asar` file as a parameter:

```shell
python math-with-slack.py /My_Apps/Slack.app/Contents/Resources/app.asar
```

```shell
python math-with-slack.py c:/Users/yourusername/AppData/Local/slack/app-4.7.0/resources/app.asar
```


## How do I get my math rendered?

As you do in TeX, use `$ ... $` for inline math and `$$ ... $$` for display-style math. 
If you need to write a lot of dollar-signs in a message and want to prevent rendering,
use backslash to escape them: `\$`.

Note that only users with MathJax injected in their client will see the rendered version of your math.
Users with the standard client will see the equations just as you wrote them 
(i.e., unrendered including the dollar signs).


## How does it work?

The script alters how Slack is loaded. Under the hood, the desktop client is based on ordinary web technology. 
The modified client loads the [MathJax library](https://www.mathjax.org) after start-up and adds a listener for messages.
As soon as it detects a new message, it looks for TeX-styled math and tries to render.
Everything is done in the client. Messages are *never* sent to servers for rendering.


## Can I contribute?

Yes, please. Just add an [issue](https://github.com/fsavje/math-with-slack/issues) or a [pull request](https://github.com/fsavje/math-with-slack/pulls).


**Thanks to past contributors:**

* [Caster](https://github.com/Caster)
* [chrispanag](https://github.com/chrispanag)
* [crstnbr](https://github.com/crstnbr)
* [gauss256](https://github.com/gauss256)
* [jeanluct](https://github.com/jeanluct)
* [LaurentHayez](https://github.com/LaurentHayez)
* [NKudryavka](https://github.com/NKudryavka)
* [peroxyacyl](https://github.com/peroxyacyl)
* [Spenhouet](https://github.com/Spenhouet)
* [Xyene](https://github.com/Xyene)
* [thisiscam](https://github.com/thisiscam)

**Inspiration**

This [comment](https://gist.github.com/DrewML/0acd2e389492e7d9d6be63386d75dd99#gistcomment-1981178) by [jouni](https://github.com/jouni) was extremely helpful. So was this [snippet](https://gist.github.com/etihwnad/bc63ec9b87af586e1435) by [etihwnad](https://github.com/etihwnad).

Commit message:

Added Download progress bar, set default MathJax to v3.0.5, added several urls for mathjax, set the version to 0.4

README.md, after:

# Rendered math (MathJax) with Slack's desktop client

[Slack](https://slack.com) does not display rendered math. The `math-with-slack` script allows you to write nice-looking math using familiar TeX syntax by injecting [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org) into Slack's desktop client. This approach has several advantages over the plugin/bot solution:

  * You can write both inline- and display-style equations.
  * You can edit equations after you've posted them.
  * Nothing is sent to external servers for rendering.

The downside is that equations are not rendered for team members without the MathJax injection.


![Math Slack Example](math-slack.gif "Amazing maths!")


## How do I install it?

Get and run the script. Restart the Slack client. You're done!

### Getting the script

### Mac and Linux

Run the following in a terminal:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/YingzhouLi/math-with-slack
cd math-with-slack
sudo python math-with-slack.py
```

### Windows


You need to exit your Slack before the installation. Then there are two ways to install `math-with-slack` on Windows.

   1. Ubuntu subsystem
    
      ```shell
      git clone https://github.com/YingzhouLi/math-with-slack
      cd math-with-slack
      sudo python math-with-slack.py
      ```
      
   2. Windows PowerShell
   
      Download `math-with-slack` as a [zip file](https://github.com/YingzhouLi/math-with-slack/archive/master.zip) and unzip it.
    
      ```shell
      cd path\to\math-with-slack
      python math-with-slack.py
      ```
      
   If multiple versions of Slack are found on your computer, you will be asked to select one from them.
      ```shell
      cd path\to\math-with-slack
      python math-with-slack.py
      Several verisons of Slack were installed.
       0: /mnt/c/Users/***/AppData/Local/slack/app-4.9.0/resources/app.asar
       1: /mnt/c/Users/***/AppData/Local/slack/app-4.8.0/resources/app.asar
      Please select a version (#/Stop): 1
      ```
   You can either enter the number indicating one of the listed versions
   or type Enter to select the first one. If you want to stop the
   script, you can enter `Stop`.
   
   **Currently, we only support Slack installed from [Slack installer](https://slack.com/downloads/windows).
   If your Slack is installed through Microsoft Store, `math-with-slack` is not able to modifiy files in `WindowsApps`
   folder hence not able to embedded our script.**


### Package and software managers

The script needs write permissions in the Slack directory in order to inject the MathJax code. 
Some package and software managers write protect their directories, and `math-with-slack` cannot be installed 
if Slack is installed through such a manager. This is the case for both the Windows Store and Snap versions of Slack. 
You should use the version downloaded from [Slack's website](https://slack.com/downloads/windows) if you want to use 
`math-with-slack`. The script should, however, work with most package managers if 
[you manage to grant the script write permission](https://github.com/fsavje/math-with-slack/issues/32#issuecomment-479852799).


### MathJax versions and URLs

The default MathJax is of version 3.0.5 and downloaded from `https://registry.npmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.5.tgz`, which is a registry of npmjs. 

The script also works with other versions of MathJax 3 and we list a table
of versions that we have tested and the corresponding URLs.

| Version | URLs                                                                                                         | File Size |
|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| 3.0.5   | https://registry.npmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.5.tgz <br> https://r.cnpmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.5.tgz | 4.4 MB    |
| 3.0.4   | https://registry.npmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.4.tgz <br> https://r.cnpmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.4.tgz | 4.4 MB    |
| 3.0.1   | https://registry.npmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.1.tgz <br> https://r.cnpmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.1.tgz | 6.3 MB    |
| 3.0.0   | https://registry.npmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.0.tgz <br> https://r.cnpmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.0.tgz | 6.3 MB    |


Some URLs works better for certain areas. You can use any URL in the
table to install `math-with-latex`.
   ```shell
   cd path\to\math-with-slack
   python math-with-slack.py --mathjax-url=https://r.cnpmjs.org/mathjax/-/mathjax-3.0.5.tgz
   ```


### Uninstall

To uninstall, run the script again with the `-u` flag:

```shell
python math-with-slack.py -u
```


### Updating Slack

The code injected by the script might be overwritten when you update the Slack app. 
If your client stops rendering math after an update, re-run the script as above and it should work again.


### If Slack cannot be found

If you've installed Slack in some exotic place, the script might not find the installation by itself or it 
might find the wrong installation. In such cases, you need to specify the location of Slack's
`app.asar` file as a parameter:

```shell
python math-with-slack.py /My_Apps/Slack.app/Contents/Resources/app.asar
```

```shell
python math-with-slack.py c:/Users/yourusername/AppData/Local/slack/app-4.7.0/resources/app.asar
```


## How do I get my math rendered?

As you do in TeX, use `$ ... $` for inline math and `$$ ... $$` for display-style math. 
If you need to write a lot of dollar-signs in a message and want to prevent rendering,
use backslash to escape them: `\$`.

Note that only users with MathJax injected in their client will see the rendered version of your math.
Users with the standard client will see the equations just as you wrote them 
(i.e., unrendered including the dollar signs).


## How does it work?

The script alters how Slack is loaded. Under the hood, the desktop client is based on ordinary web technology. 
The modified client loads the [MathJax library](https://www.mathjax.org) after start-up and adds a listener for messages.
As soon as it detects a new message, it looks for TeX-styled math and tries to render.
Everything is done in the client. Messages are *never* sent to servers for rendering.


## Can I contribute?

Yes, please. Just add an [issue](https://github.com/fsavje/math-with-slack/issues) or a [pull request](https://github.com/fsavje/math-with-slack/pulls).


**Thanks to past contributors:**

* [Caster](https://github.com/Caster)
* [chrispanag](https://github.com/chrispanag)
* [crstnbr](https://github.com/crstnbr)
* [gauss256](https://github.com/gauss256)
* [jeanluct](https://github.com/jeanluct)
* [LaurentHayez](https://github.com/LaurentHayez)
* [NKudryavka](https://github.com/NKudryavka)
* [peroxyacyl](https://github.com/peroxyacyl)
* [Spenhouet](https://github.com/Spenhouet)
* [Xyene](https://github.com/Xyene)
* [thisiscam](https://github.com/thisiscam)

**Inspiration**

This [comment](https://gist.github.com/DrewML/0acd2e389492e7d9d6be63386d75dd99#gistcomment-1981178) by [jouni](https://github.com/jouni) was extremely helpful. So was this [snippet](https://gist.github.com/etihwnad/bc63ec9b87af586e1435) by [etihwnad](https://github.com/etihwnad).
